in_prometheus_remote_write: Add documentation for input plugin of prometheus remote write (#1363)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: pipeline/inputs/prometheus-remote-write.md

---
description: An input plugin to ingest payloads of Prometheus remote write
---

# Prometheus Remote Write

The input plugin of Prometheus remote write allows you to ingest payloads of Prometheus remote write protocol.

> The OpenTelemetry plugin allows you to ingest telemetry data as per the OTLP specification, from various OpenTelemetry exporters, the OpenTelemetry Collector, or Fluent Bit's OpenTelemetry output plugin.

Author: My bad.... I'll fix it.

## Configuration <a href="#configuration" id="configuration"></a>

| Key           | Description                                                                                                                                    | default |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| listen            | The address to listen on                                                                                                                       | 0.0.0.0 |

> | port              | The port for Fluent Bit to listen on                                                                                                           | 80    |

Author: Hmm.., maybe 8080 should be default port for HTTP listen?

| buffer\_max\_size   | Specify the maximum buffer size in KB to receive a JSON message.                                                                               | 4M      |
| buffer\_chunk\_size | This sets the chunk size for incoming incoming JSON messages. These chunks are then stored/managed in the space available by buffer_max_size.  | 512K    |
|successful\_response\_code | It allows to set successful response code. `200`, `201` and `204` are supported.| 201 |

> | tag\_from\_uri      | If true, tag will be created from uri. e.g. v1_metrics from /v1/metrics .                                                                      | true    |

Author: tag_from_uri is always prioritized to create tag for ingested metrics events and this should be true be default.
Without tag_from_uri should require to specify tag parameter explicitly.

> | tag\_from\_uri      | If true, tag will be created from uri. e.g. v1_metrics from /v1/metrics .                                                                      | true    |

Author: I added additional descriptions for tag and tag_from_uri parameters: https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit-docs/pull/1363/commits/aced09ecf09dad3ffa9724ee1b37f8cd6a3083a1

> 

Author: Yes. We are always able to use TLS. I'll check it.

> 

Author: I confirmed that we can use TLS but it also depends on Prometheus' configuration for TLS.
We didn't ensure other products configurations. Should we add an example for communicating with TLS between fluent-bit and Prometheus server?

> 

Author: I added an example for TLS: https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit-docs/pull/1363/commits/684be67275999e6c220fa91269dbc3d33d1d4bd2

## Configuration

| Key           | Description                                                                                                                                    | default |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| listen            | The address to listen on                                                                                                                       | 0.0.0.0 |
| port              | The port for Fluent Bit to listen on                                                                                                           | 8080    |
| buffer\_max\_size   | Specify the maximum buffer size in KB to receive a JSON message.                                                                               | 4M      |
| buffer\_chunk\_size | This sets the chunk size for incoming incoming JSON messages. These chunks are then stored/managed in the space available by buffer_max_size.  | 512K    |
|successful\_response\_code | It allows to set successful response code. `200`, `201` and `204` are supported.| 201 |

> | tag\_from\_uri      | If true, tag will be created from uri. e.g. api\_prom\_push from /api/prom/push. This parameter will be prioritized when tag parameter is specified. If specify as false, it needs to specify user specified tag with tag parameter. | true    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| tag\_from\_uri      | If true, tag will be created from uri, e.g. api\_prom\_push from /api/prom/push, and any tag specified in the config will be ignored. If false then a tag must be provided in the config for this input. | true    |
```

A sample config file to get started will look something like the following:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="fluent-bit.conf" %}
```
[INPUT]
	name prometheus_remote_write
	listen 127.0.0.1
	port 8080
	uri /api/prom/push

[OUTPUT]
	name stdout
	match *
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="fluent-bit.yaml" %}
```yaml
pipeline:
    inputs:
        - name: prometheus_remote_write
          listen: 127.0.0.1
          port: 8080
          uri: /api/prom/push
    outputs:
        - name: stdout
          match: '*'
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> With the above configuration, Fluent Bit will listen on port `8080` for data. You can now send payloads of Prometheus remote write to the endpoints `/api/prom/push`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the above configuration, Fluent Bit will listen on port `8080` for data.
You can now send payloads in Prometheus remote write format to the endpoint `/api/prom/push`.
```

## Examples

### Communicate with TLS

> Communicating with TLS, you will need to use the tls related parameters:

Reviewer: I'd link out to the transport-security doc as well.

Author: I added a link for it and added mention this plugin there: https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit-docs/pull/1363/commits/0c1b1999c2caa63adf0303933bf912a1bc1f9c4a

```
[INPUT]
	Name prometheus_remote_write
	Listen 127.0.0.1
	Port 8080
	Uri /api/prom/push
	Tls On
	tls.crt_file /path/to/certificate.crt
	tls.key_file /path/to/certificate.key
```

> Then, enabled TLS configuration and able to ingest payloads of metrics with Prometheus' remote write protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you should be able to send data over TLS to the remote write input.
```
